---
title: "用Javascript 实现一个单向链表"
subTitle: "链表的存储结构可以实现array的大多数功能, 但他们在计算机内存实现方式不同, 数组的存储是连续的, 使用索引值来直接获取数据, 我们将多种元素, 所以获取数组内的值为O(1), 非常快, 而链表在查询时比较慢, 但插入和移除的速度非常快"
date: "2021-05-17"
icon: "faJs"
type: "js"
headImg: "https://cdn.hashnode.com/res/hashnode/image/upload/v1621103320118/ufcmMcwN_.jpeg?w=1600&h=840&fit=crop&crop=entropy&auto=compress"
---

## Implementing a Linked List in Javascript

#### Background

I have been writing programs in the java language and had never written very much javascript code. But with my new profound love for javascript has pushed me to learn more and more about the language and has shown me how much I had misunderstood it in the past. I am trying to learn more about it so I wrote Linked List in Javascript. To see how objects and `this` works in javascript. I will start by explaining what's the difference between a Linked List and an array is and when to use which.

### Linked Lists and Arrays

A linked list is a data structure that is also used to store values just like arrays. But they work very differently under the hood in the computer memory. For example, an array is stored in contiguous memory. So to get the data present in an array at an index we just have to add the number of bytes taken by the element multiply it to the index and that number to the memory address from where the array starts and wallah! we will get the element stored at that index. That's why to get an item from an array takes O(1) time.

In case when elements are frequently added to the array it will get filled very fast and then the program has to allocate a new array and copy all the elements from the previous array as with time the array will grow and will have to take more time in copying all the elements to the new array.

#### Why use Linked List

In these cases, Linked Lists are a better option to store the elements as every time we need to store a new element in the list we create a node and store the reference to the node in the prev node. Let's how Linked Lists work.

In Linked lists, the data is stored in small chunks and the reference to those chunks are stored in nodes. Nodes are objects in javascript. Nodes that we define here will store two things mainly data and a reference to the next node. It can store more things. But for simplicity, we will just keep these two things for now.

### Node class

Here's how we define a node in Javascript:
定义一个基础存储单元(节点)

```js
class Node {
  constructor(data) {
    this.data = data;
    this.next = null; 
  }
}
```

Node has a constructor where we pass the data which we want to store in the node and next will store the reference of the next node in the linked list.

### LInked List class

Now we will implement the Linked List.
定义一个链表类

```js
class LinkedList {
  constructor() {
    this.head = null;
  }
}
```

Linked Lists have a head element that states the starting node. Currently, it is null as the list is empty now.
链表拥有一个头部节点, 做为开始, 并初始化为空

#### `add()` method

Now we will add a method to the linked list node which will add a new node to the list.
实现一个添加方法, 用来加入新的节点.

```js
class LinkedList {
  constructor() {
    this.head = null;
  }
  add(data) {
    let node = new Node(data);
    let current;
    if(this.head == null) {
      this.head = node;
    } else {
      current = this.head;
      while(current.next) {
        current = current.next;
      }
      current.next = node;
    }
  }
}
```

The add method takes argument data which is the data that you want to add to the list. It will add this to the end of the list. The `add(data)` method first checks that is the list is empty. If the list is empty it will add the node to the head of the list. Else it will traverse to the end of the list and then add the element.

#### `printList()` method

I will add one more method which will print all the elements present in the list.
打印链表数据

```js
printList() {
    let list = '';
    let current = this.head;
    while(current) {
      list += current.data + ' -> ';
      current = current.next;
    }
    list += 'end';
    console.log(list);
  }
```

#### Using Linked List class

Let's create a Linked List and add value to it.

```js
let linkedList = new LinkedList();

linkedList.add(10);
linkedList.add(20);
linkedList.add(5);

linkedList.printList();
\\ 10 -> 20 -> 5 -> end
```

We can add more methods to the LinkedList class and add a tail node that will point to the last node in the list. Here's replit link which contains the whole code [click here](https://replit.com/@yashwant9263/linkedlist#index.js). Tinker with it try adding more methods to the LinkedList class or create Linked lists and add elements to those.